I am using ISE EiffelStudio 5 (5.1.11).  All of these comments are on the
Linux version of the tool.  

I am running on two machines: 
 (1) My home dev box, "kind", a Pentium II 350MHz with 256MB of physical
     and 256MB virtual memory, running kernel 2.4.9-21 (RedHat Q/Aed),
     X11R6 4.1.0 via a Voodoo3, with Sawfish 1.0-ximian.4.
 (2) My work dev box, "socrates", a Pentium III 550MHz with ~220MB of
     physical and ~650MB of virtual memory, running kernel 2.4.9-21 (RedHat
     Q/Aed), X11R6 4.1.0 via dual Matrox IIs, with Sawfish 1.0-ximian.4.

---

1. After some actions, even though the estudio window has focus, it will
not accept any user input (mouse or keyboard).  The mouse has to move out
of the window and re-enter for input to be re-enabled.

2. The cluster tree within the clusters pane is reinitialized and fully
closed anytime a compile takes place.

3. Some of my long files trigger a bug when using the flat or clickable
views.  The result is that the Editor pane is completely blacked out and no
interaction or refreshing is possible.  One can see the contents as the
editor initially renders but everything is quickly and permanently blacked
out after that.

4. Some of my long files (e.g., a geyacc-generated parser class), when
viewed in clickable mode, cause my entire machine to lock up for 15-60
seconds.  No interactivity is possible, X is effectively hung, the drive
light just goes on for the time period, any tops I have running stop
refreshing, etc.  This is completely repeatable.

5. I cannot interoperate at all with the challenge dialog that pops up when
I attempt to change the view to a new class but I have modified the current
class ("Class X has been modified.  Do you want to save changes?").  I
cannot select the (modal) dialog, I cannot move it, resize it, or click on
any buttons in it.  All I can do is use window manager keyboard shortcuts
to change the focus to the estudio main window then press escape or return,
which I presume are shortcuts for the dialog.  

6. Also, if I leave the mouse inside the estudio window's borders, after
this dialog is answered via a keypress, my window manager's focus behavior
(Sawfish with enter-exit behavior) no longer works until I click inside the
estudio window.  To be clear, in this state I cannot activate any other
windows, move to a new workspace, etc.

7. I cannot select more than one precompiled library in the Project
Configuration dialog.  I presume this is intentional, given the GUI design,
but I'm curious as to this restriction.

8. Launching an application causes a partial estudio interface refresh
(everything below the project toolbar).  This isn't terribly problematic,
but it seems that my panes (e.g., features, clusters, search) do not always
remember their placement and size.  For example, my clusters pane
(sometimes? always?) becomes a few pixels tall.

9. I am often surprised at where estudio decides to render an option
subwindow for the various items within the Preferences pane (e.g. Global
preferences).  For example, currently I'm trying to twiddle the "Text files
format" short name from True to False and the pull-down appeared about 1000
pixels left and a few hundred pixels up from their proper location.
Regardless of rendering location, choosing the option doesn't make the
option popup disappear, it just sits in my way, not refreshing even if I
move the Preferences window, until I select another option, tree node, or
click the close button.

10. Disabling either of the toolbars or the address bar makes the component
disappear, but the estudio window does not properly re-layout the window to
take advantage of the newly available space.  Adding these elements works
fine, and removing all of them triggers a new layout.

11. Is there any way I can ask estudio to edit a source file rather than a
generated Eiffel file (e.g., foo.y rather than foo.e)?

12. Your copyright notice in the Help->"About ISE EiffelStudio" popup only
covers through the year 2000.

13. I set my "Internet browser command" global preference got set to the
following: "gnome-moz-remote $url".  When I looked at the setting later it
(explicitly) included all of the following URLs as well:
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//tools/eiffelstudio/how_to_s/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//tools/eiffelstudio/how_to_s/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//tools/eiffelstudio/reference/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//general/guided_tour/environment/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//general/guided_tour/environment/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//tools/eiffelstudio/reference/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//tools/eiffelstudio/how_to_s/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//general/guided_tour/language/index.html
/usr/local/Eiffel51/docs//tools/eiffelstudio/reference/index.html

Note the duplication.  Manually removing the double slashes does not help.

Resetting the value and then trying the various Help menus causes the same
problem to happen again.  I presume this is intentional, and the intent is
to have the remote browser automatically open all the help top-level
indices?  The standard gnome-moz-remote command doesn't seem to agree with
this usage.

Note that I do have full permissions on the core install location in case
estudio is attempting to write some global preferences there.

14. A piece of feedback on BASE.KERNEL.FILE: I think that that
documentation for read_line is misleading given that each new read string
is put into the same STRING available via last_string.  I understand the
reason for this choice, but the documentation isn't clear.  Also, shouldn't
you have an invariant "last_string = (old last_string)" on the class?

15. I'd love for all windows and dialogs to remember their locations and
for those locations to be *either* absolute or relative coordinates
(this being a preference setting).  I work on a two monitor system and to
consistently have popups appear in the middle of the virtual display, split
across two monitors, and I have to move them to use them every time, is
really irritating.  Remembering size would be great as well.

16. Some windows have very strange default sizes.  For example, the "Create
Directory" window on my system defaults to 637x487 (-ish) and is not
actually centered.

17. What is the relationship between the clusters listed inthe Project
configuration and those added via the Add Cluster tool?  Adding a cluster
in the tool automatically adds it to the project, but not vice-versa?  Why
don't clusters added via the project configuration appear in the clusters
tool?  Do they only appear when they contain classes?  It looks like
clusters automatically added to the project don't take relative clusters
into account (the use of the "$" symbol in ISE Ace files).

18. It would be lovely if the file requestors remembered the last path that
we were in or added such paths to its pulldown menu.  "Surfing" through the
filesystem over and over is one of the primary reasons I cannot stand GUIs.

19. Actually, I just noticed that the Create Cluster tool does remember the
last parent cluster chosen---thanks!

20. Can I control the order of the cluster listing in the cluster tool?  At
the top-level, they are alphabetical.  But I have a subsubcluster set that
is not listed in any order in particular.  Oh, I just compiled and
re-opened the tree and now it is alphabetized.  Hrm.

21. While clicking on clusters one by one in rapid succession in the
project panel estudio crashed with an "operating systems signal".  The
console (my shell that started estudio) didn't print anything, and because
the alert requestor locked up my whole UI (all I could do is use my window
manager's control keys to switch windows, bring them front/back, etc.) I
could not save the error message.

22. I was told that I had two clusters of the same name, and I verified
this in the project configuration->clusters panel.  I deleted one of the
clusters just prior to the crash in #21.  On restarting and reopening the
panel I find that both instances of the cluster are now missing.  Perhaps
this is related to the crash?

23. The clusters listed in the project configuration->clusters panel are
not alphabetized either.

24. I'd love to all tree widgets to always remember their state from use to
use.  Reopening nodes to get to deep leaves all of the time gets really
old.

25. I'd like to be able to bookmark clusters as well as classes.

26. The performance of the diagram window, especially when moving classes
or clusters, is unsatisfactor.  On my home box, for example, I tried to
drag-select a set of classes.  This didn't work, of course, but it did drag
a cluster out of its parents across the screen.  Rendering each step of the
drag took about 4-5 seconds, so the entire app hung basically for the next
two minutes as it rendered this (incorrect) action.  This means that any
interaction via the diagram window is effectively read-only on my
development machine.

27. When I have estudio maximized (the normal way in which I work in it)
all dialogs seem to initially be layed out in maximized mode (e.g.,
preferences, project settings, etc.).

28. When creating a new class I got the impression that I had to type in
the classname as all caps (because the default was all caps), (but of course
this doesn't actually matter), but I found that when I typed it in lower
case, estudio automatically named it in uppercase (as I wished).  This did
not seem obvious to me.

29. I accidentally initiated a drag-region action (drag-select a region in
the editor then drag the selected region) and was unable to finish the
drag.  My entire UI locked up, no keyboard shortcuts would cancel the drag
action, etc.  I had to log into my machine from another host and kill the
estudio process to get my machine back.

30. While experimenting with the charts, class, and cluster pulldown menus
in the diagram window I saw the following bugs: (1) the first time I tried
any of the menus, instead of opening the triple-pulldown in-frame I got
borderless window that was as wide as my display and about 2/3rd of its
height.  (2) When switching to an old chart I got into an (infinite?)
sequence of rapid-fire flashing diagram progress bars and I had to C-c
estudio.  The focus kept rapidly switching between the main estudio window
and the progress bar, the latter of which would not have time to fully
render before it was torn down.

31. When using the "organize favorites" requestor, after removing a
selected favorite, the textlist has some other favorite highlighted, but it
isn't actually *selected* because the "move to folder..." and "remove"
buttons are ghosted.  I suggest that this is improper UI semantics; either
remove the highlight post-remove or have the highlighted item selected.
Also, to select the highlighted item I must select a different item, then
reselect the previous item.

32. Your HTML documentation that comes with estudio has decent coverage,
but the HTML itself is quite poor.  It does not render properly at all in
several of my web browsers.  Might I suggest passing the lot through
HTMLTidy is a quick-fire way to fix this and still be left with
maintainable HTML?

33. Some of the permissions in your install are not consistent.  This has
no impact on estudio as far as I can see.  See
$ISE_EIFFEL/studio/spec/linux-glibc2.1/include/[eif_cond_var.h|eif_size.h}

34. The calculator time example does not build.  Attempting to build it
results in a VUEX(2) error:

Error code: VUEX(2)
Error: feature of qualified call is not available to client class.
What to do: make sure feature after dot is exported to caller.

Class: SET_DATE
Feature: execute
Feature: make Class: DATE Version from: DATE
Not exported to class SET_DATE
Line: 25
        day:= io.lastint;
->      Result.make (year, month, day);
          end;

Additionally, any application using the time library does not compile
because the generated C code include the line
#include "datetime.h"
rather than
#include <datetime.h>

There also seems to be problems with the example's external clauses.  Some
uses of environmental variables use parentheses, others use curly braces,
and others use nothing at all.

35. I believe that compiler error messages in the context window should
line wrap.  I typically keep my estudio windows open just wide enough for
an 80-85 column editor, so often long messages are hidden off the right
side of the context window and I have to manually scroll right to read them
in full.